---
title: "Migrating over to Next.js, AWS and more..."
date: "March 22, 2025"
author: "Lesedi Molemi"
imgUrl: "https://lvm-p-site-assets.s3.af-south-1.amazonaws.com/aws.png"
alt: "Custom AWS Poster"
summary: "Updating my site and migrating to Next.js and AWS"
---

## Introduction

My website was long overdue for an upgrade—not just in terms of the underlying technologies but also its user interface. It needed a fresh, modern look that reflected my current skill level and abilities. I firmly believe that a website's design and overall experience should align with the developer's expertise, showcasing both technical proficiency and creativity.

### Why the move to Next.js?

- I genuinely appreciate how Next.js operates, both in principle and practice. Features like built-in routing, server-side rendering (SSR), client-side rendering (CSR), and my ability to control what get's generated where. Also the control I have over metadata make it a very attractive tool for web development.
- A major reason for my interest is my desire to use Next.js for most, if not all, of my future projects, ventures, and experiments. **To clarify**, I plan to utilize Next.js strictly for front-end development only. For back-end development, I remain deeply invested in expanding my expertise with so-called _"legacy languages"_ like C# and Java, which I find reliable and robust for those needs.
- Job security is also a factor, but that's a topic for another day...
- While it's often said that "everything that can be done in JavaScript will eventually be done in JavaScript," I haven’t fully embraced that bandwagon—at least not yet.

### Moving over to AWS

- From the beginning of my cloud journey, I've always wanted to leverage both of the top two providers simultaneously. Why, exactly? Even I can’t fully explain — it’s a mysterious inclination. All I know is that I wanted it to be that way, and so it will be.
- The transition to AWS isn’t just about putting my knowledge of the platform into practice; it’s also my official foray into more "complex" architectures. I’m talking about enterprise-level designs, implemented on my humble little site that averages a minimum of three monthly viewers (all of whom are me, on different devices).
- Occasionally, a curious passerby stumbles upon it through LinkedIn, intrigued by the fact that I invested in a **.com** domain. That small effort to make my site feel professional might just encourage them to explore my creation — to which I say thank you my friend. But I digress...
- I'll admit, this migration to AWS is not a fully thought out effort. The goal was to get hands on experience with AWS, of which I got, but it really doesn't matter much what provider you use to deploy your work. As long as it's up and cheaply so.
- The only thing I have on AWS as of now are the images on this site. The site itself is on [Sevalla](https://sevalla.com/) because I realised it's quite tricky to deploy a Next.js site on AWS with the SSR features and doing it autonomously.
- My first try was spinning up an EC2 and having it run there, this was relatively simple to setup and link my Github to have code changes deployed as soon as they hit main. All that was left was for me create my cron job and BOOM...we have a working CD solution.
- The only problem was it was going to cost me a tiny fortune, and spending money unneccessarily on infra would have the AWS Gods looking down on me with shame so I killed that.
- The next option was to move over to Amplify, but then I got a $50 credit from [Sevalla](https://sevalla.com/) and here we are😁
- Although the migration to AWS is not complete, it is most definetly in the works and should be done in the coming months.

### The design

- The design is basic and that was the goal.
- Adding animations and trickery so complex it has your eyes questioning what your seeing and your brain questioning how it was done is something I can do, with a little effort, but that would take away from my developer experience.
- My pipeline is pumping out code and moving to the next project. This site isn't a serious undertaking, but it's taken me months to complete due to wanting to build other things.
- This design is inherited from the v1 and is simly just a more aesthetically pleasing. Darker colours, less round borders, slighly more animations, gradients and a dose of blue to satisy the colour hungry eye.
- The look for v1 was to get me a job, which it achieved, and the current site (v2) is to showcase my skillset and interest for writing, building and design.
- How I came up with the initial look was by copying the look of another person's site. I added minor updates over the year to personalise it and then did a design overhaul to have the minor tweaks and a refreshed look to it while keeping it's simplicity. I added a blog and projects page and removed my resume page.
- There's still alot I want to add, but there will come a point where I don't want to maintain it anymore and use Notion similar to what [Leo Radvinsky](https://leoradvinsky.com/) did, but we're not there yet...
